# project-1
Matt Maliaros, Michael Jenkins, Andrew Sirico, Mackenzie Balisage
Documentation for Group Project 1
Our project uses three different types of files, HTML, CSS using the Materialize framework, and Javascript using  JQuery framework.  The purpose of our project is to display results to a user to provide them information about a new tv show or movie that they are interested in.  The website asks for a user's input of a movie/tv show using a search bar. The app takes the input and then displays the following data: a gif incorporating content or a reference from the movie or tv show, a poster of the movie/tv show to let the user now if they have gotten the desired result, the Title, the date that the movie or tv show premiered, The IMDB rating, a plot summary, and finally the stars that are in the movie or tv show. This information will be displayed in a table when the user either clicks the submit button or presses enter. If the user continues to search on the page without refreshing, the new input is displayed while the old input information is removed from the page.
Michael and Matt were responsible for the backend portion of the project. The backend is powered by javascript that it is using a JQuery library to make the various functions work as intended. The app uses two different API's to acquire the information using the users input in the AJAX call. Two AJAX calls were set up to receive a response from each of the APIs. Each of these Ajax calls were stored in separate functions that are called when the user does one of two actions in the UI. If the user clicks the submit button or hits the enter key the two functions will run in both situations. We used the OMDB database API to acquire the movie information used in the Movie & T.V. Show Information div. The Movie or T.V. Show Information div is where the response of the function for the OMDB AJAX call is stored and displayed in the UI. The OMDB function dynamically generates the elements of the table tag we created in the HTML to respond to the users input. The reasoning behind this was to have the table elements clear out every time the user clicks the submit button or hits enter and display the new input response while removing the old input response. This was to keep the page form being too busy.  This is similar to what is happening with the response of the Giphy API AJAX call in the Movie or T.V. Show div. The only difference being that a div is being replaced instead of the table elements. 
The result of the omdb and giphy functions working this way is to have it so when the user inputs their movie or tv show into the search bar, the javascript takes the input and puts it into the documentation required by each API to get a response. After both of these APIs have finished pulling their responses, the information we want to display is stored in a div, table row, or table cell. These HTML elements have been dynamically generated in the javascript instead of hard coded, which makes for easier manipulation of what is actually displayed in the UI on the click of the submit button or enter key. 
Mackenzie and Andrew worked on the front-end portion of the project. The first major challenge was deciding what the project would be about. If we did not know what we wanted to do, how would we know what to make our application look like. So after careful consideration and review of ideas, we came to a conclusion to make an entertainment based application. As our idea came into focus, we landed on an application that would display relevant entertainment information about shows and movies. After this we had to decide on what kind of information to display on the page. We would obviously need an area for user input. Second, we needed an area that displayed the relevant information according to the user input. This would be the basis for our HTML layout. Two div containers would be all that was needed for our application. One to hold the search query, and one to display the relevant information to the page. All else that was needed were a few additional div containers to house the titles inside the parent div containers. After establishing this, we used Bootstrap to make a nav bar. We also decided to use materialize for a footer that creates a parallax effect. Originally we wanted the nav bar to have this quality, but certain challenges forced us to make a new decision pressed for time. This is something we hope to improve on. The CSS as a whole was pretty simple to implement. After figuring the sizes for one, I copied, pasted, and tinkered with the elements in the various media query's to make sure the alignment was right and that most importantly, the user could see their information.